Commands

ifconfig
ping google.com
traceroute google.com
route
arp
Rarp
netstat
nslookup
dig nhitm.ac.in


theory


1).Ping Command Syntax:

Short for Packet Internet Groper, ping is a utility used to verify whether or not a network data
packet is capable of being distributed to an address without errors. The ping utility is commonly
used to check for network errors.

2) Tracert Command
The tracert command is used to visually see a network packet being sent and received and the
amount of hops required for that packet to get to its destination. Users with Microsoft Windows
2000 and Windows XP who need additional information network latency and network loss should also
consider using the path ping command.

3).IPCONFIG: -
(Internet Protocol Configuration) A Windows command line utility that is used to manage the IP
address assigned to the machine it is running in. Used without any additional parameters, it
displays the computer's currently assigned IP, subnet mask and default gateway addresses.

4)netstat:-
Abbreviation of network statistics, the netstat command is a command found in almost all command line environments that allow you to view the statistics of the network.

5) ARP
Short for Address Resolution Protocol, ARP is used with the IP for mapping a 32-bit Internet
Protocol address to a MAC address that is recognized in the local network specified in RFC 826.
Once recognized, the server or networking device returns a response containing the required address.

6. NSLOOKUP:
Nslookup (stands for “Name Server Lookup”) is a useful command for getting information
from the DNS server. It is a network administration tool for querying the Domain Name System
(DNS) to obtain domain name or IP address mapping or any other specific DNS record. It is
also used to troubleshoot DNS related problems.

7. RARP:-

Rarp manipulates the kernel's RARP table in various ways. The primary options are clearing an
address mapping entry and manually setting up one. For debugging purposes, the rarp program
also allows a complete dump of the RARP table.

8.ROUTE:

Route command in Linux is used when you want to work with the IP/kernel routing table. It is
mainly used to set up static routes to specific hosts or networks via an interface. It is used for
showing or update the IP/kernel routing table.

9.DIG

The dig command in Linux is used to gather DNS information. It stands for Domain Information
Groper, and it collects data about Domain Name Servers. The dig command is helpful for
diagnosing DNS problems, but is also used to display DNS information. This guide will help you
understand and use the Linux dig command.