Title: To perform network discovery using discovery tools Nmap

APPARATUS: Ubuntu System

Aim: To perform network discovery using discovery tools Nmap.

Theory:
Nmap (“Network Mapper”)is a free and open source utility for network
discovery and security auditing
Zenmap is the official graphical user interface (GUI) for the Nmap Security
Scanner.
Nmap uses raw IP packets in novel way to determine what hosts are available
on the network, what services those hosts are offering, what operating
systems they are running, what type of packet filters/firewalls are in use and
dozens of other characteristics.
Nmap runs on all major computer operating system, and official binary
packages are available for Linux, Windows and Mac OS X.
In addition to classic command line Nmap executable, the Nmap suite includes an advanced GUI and results viewer (Zenmap).
Though Nmap has evolved over the years and is extremely flexible, at heart it's
a port- scan tool, gathering information by sending raw packets to system
ports. It listens for responses and determines whether ports are open, closed
or filtered in some way by, for example, a firewall. Other terms used for port
scanning include port discovery or enumeration.
The packets that Nmap sends out return with IP addresses and a wealth of
other data, allowing you to identify all sorts of network attributes, giving you a
profile or map of the network and allowing you to create a hardware and
software inventory.

How to use Nmap
There is a wide range of free network monitoring utilities as well as free opensource
vulnerability scanners available to network administrators and security
auditors. What makes Nmap stand out as the tool IT and network managers
need to know is its flexibility and power. While the basis of Nmap's functionality
is port scanning, it allows for a variety of related capabilities including:
Network mapping: Nmap can identify the devices on a network (also called
host discovery), including servers, routers and switches, and how they're
physically connected.
OS detection: Nmap can detect the operating systems running on network
devices (also called OS fingerprinting), providing the vendor name, the

underlying operating system, the version of the software and even an estimate
of devices' uptime.
Service discovery: Nmap can not only identify hosts on the network, but
whether they're acting as mail, web or name servers, and the particular
applications and versions of the related software they're running.

Security auditing: Figuring out what versions of operating systems and
applications are running on network hosts lets network managers determine
their vulnerability to specific flaws. If a network admin receives an alert about a
vulnerability in a particular version of an application, for example, she can
scan her network to identify whether that software version is running on the
network and take steps to patch or update the relevant hosts. Scripts can also
automate tasks such as detecting specific vulnerabilities.
Result:(Attach Print out)

CONCLUSION:-
Thus, we have successfully performed network discovery using
discovery tools Nmap. We understood that the Nmap suite includes an
advanced GUI and results viewer