Title: Telnet Using Packet Tracer

Aim: - Telnet Using Packet Tracer

System Software: -Cisco Packet Tracer

Theory/ Working Principle:

TELNET stands for Terminal Network. It is a type of protocol that enables one
computer to connect to the local computer. It is used as a standard TCP/IP
protocol for virtual terminal service which is provided by ISO. The computer
which starts the connection is known as the local computer.
The computer which is being connected to i.e. which accepts the connection
known as the remote computer.
During telnet operation, whatever is being performed on the remote computer
will be displayed by the local computer. Telnet operates on a client/server
principle. The local computer uses a telnet client program and the remote
computers use a telnet server program.

Logging
The logging process can be further categorized into two parts:

1. Local Login
2. Remote Login

1. Local Login: Whenever a user logs into its local system, it is known as local
login.
2. Remote Login: Remote Login is a process in which users can log in to a
remote site i.e. computer and use services that are available on the remote
computer. With the help of remote login, a user is able to understand the result
of transferring the result of processing from the remote computer to the local
computer.

Advantages of Telnet
1. It provides remote access to someone’s computer system.
2. Telnet allows the user for more access with fewer problems in data
transmission.
3. Telnet saves a lot of time.
4. The oldest system can be connected to a newer system with telnet
having different operating systems.

Disadvantages of Telnet
1. As it is somehow complex, it becomes difficult to beginners in
understanding.
2. Data is sent here in form of plain text, that’s why it is not so secured.
3. Some capabilities are disabled because of not proper interlinking of the
remote and local devices.

commands

enable
configure terminal
hostname R1
interface g0/0
ip add 192.168.1.1 255.255.255.0
end
wr
configure terminal
enable secret cisco
end
exit
enable
cisco
configure terminal
line vty 0 5
login
password 12
end

3) Select PC open command prompt. Enter following command
ping 192.168.1.1
telent 192.168.1.1
12
enable
cisco